welcome to Goa and newer browsers for
11th of March 2020 we have agenda
without hogs and we got hack getting
cozy all right let's see the first the
first one is Stardust everyone so the
implementation PR first artist what
March last week and the release
candidate was also made with that I
already got between the shyest ffs
browser examples using it and yeah
everything seems to be working for both
the transport and discovery
so the initial status now is that those
examples will need to be reviewed and
with that we will release the final
version of starless and at the same time
I will be now working on getting docker
image so that infra team will have a
easy time when deploying it so yeah I
think we are in a good shape on Stardust
to get it - Jessica fest really soon
that's super cool I talked to Jacob
before on the web RTC one the docker
image we like not the plan is for those
docker images to be not only useful for
our infra but for like anyone who wants
to run their own and don't want to care
about all the dependencies that you
could just run a docker image in their
own right yeah yeah that's cool super
cool wait when you say that the browser
examples are happy what does what does
that mean are there examples that are
checked in are there people copy and
paste in news and yeah I mean basically
both
just between Jessica fests we have
browser examples which before the
refactor were using WebRTC star and the
WebSocket star for transporting
discovery of peers and basically I after
the refactor they got just working using
a web RTC start and now in the examples
where I did was two initial files just
remove web RTC star and just rely on
Stardust and check if everything was
working as before and it is and then I
basically tried both together web RTC
star and star list and now in the
current PR state the goal is to
basically people integrate starless the
code is like comments and in the example
people are guided on how to configure
them but to me Jake were discussing if
when we have with these deployed and we
don't need to like go with peer ideas
and stuff like that we can eventually
just to make it to work and people just
can run the example instead of needing
to do this initial configuration part ok
think thanks for clarifying one thing
that I maybe I misunderstood I thought
Stardust did not use WebRTC no he
doesn't use we weren't easy so so for I
just want to make sure that if we're
switching things to start us but then if
people are still using web RTC star that
were not like turning off tests for that
transport or reducing the number of
transports available to people no I'm
not using WebRTC started practice right
now anyway they are there it's the only
current please generally transport for a
browser like with discovery of course so
they are they are using it and the goal
would be for note for them to use both
because using basta will be able to
discover more peers and just using so
though you start as an WebRTC
for now okay yeah
awesome and
like additional clarification is what
what does it mean examples are happy at
least in jails ipfs I believe there is
additional orchestration which runs
tests that check if each example does
what it's supposed to do like so yeah it
is all that that is also green using
sternest yeah historically we had the
situation when changes were made to
Jessica fess or Jace ipfs httpclient
but we forgot to update examples and
people look at examples and that was a
pretty bad experience so now we got
that's a part of our CI setup e CI will
fail if change you made broke examples
so you need to like update examples you
can make breaking changes so that's why
it's important yeah awesome thank you so
much I did yep for some reason I always
struggle to spell it it's as short of
those vowels at the beginning yeah so we
talked about ietf at the time yeah
in Madrid going to that in representing
so I was thinking wondering like are the
what should we be doing if anything
leading up to that in terms of like
whether it's PR or awareness or prep for
discussions at ETF so that we can I
they're like get those on the plate for
discussion there or just like get more
community awareness leading up to that
yeah that's a thanks for bringing that
up this is a great idea I listen linked
to the I eat so I went oh seven is about
to happen I think it's like next week
something like that and it's great to be
able to walk through the sessions there
and you can see kind of what the topics
are that people are discussing which is
a great way to get a get a overview of
what the range of discussion is what
types of technologies are being
discussed I'm also going to add another
link to Yanis wrote up a list of groups
he thought we would be interested in as
pl
so I'll link to that document the hair
in the notes as well which is would be a
narrower field of view around his
experience of what he's recommending um
Crick cancelled I hope quick stock
canceled we're just about to ship it
yeah but uh I it's doing so I think more
than anything I think there's probably
gonna be some public communication like
we'll announce this PL who's going to be
there and what we're just and doing well
we're thinking about running an events
to like you know like maybe a happy hour
or meet-and-greet that type of thing
I think nothing crazy but I I think it
furred furred for this group number one
is get familiar with the set of content
I look at the YouTube the ITF YouTube
like every session is recorded so I
think well we would be cool is like this
list here of the schedule is figure out
which one of these we all maybe want to
watch later and then talk about so we
can like pick some of those sessions
that we think would be interesting to
learn about and then in a later browser
and connectivity meeting set aside 15
minutes or something like that and kind
of review what we learned from watching
the different videos or specific videos
I like when the wind packaging defense
of web packaging was happening that was
a fascinating video because you really
get a sense for for for one like the
nature of the discussion how there's
different QA like people can get up on
stage and choose to have open up a
discussion around an area and this was a
very contentious one so you had people
from CloudFlare and Mozilla and Google
battling it out in an open discussion
which is really fascinating to see to
see that back and forth and the nature
of what the critical discussion actually
looks like in some of these sessions and
then there's also separate birds of a
feather so you know like we can do
something like
run of birds with other around people
who are interested in p2p network
protocols and things like that there's
also like you know would be great maybe
we should have Rihanna's come and talk
as a little bit about it as a guest
speaker here for this meeting to talk to
folks about his experiences so far
because there's basically like two parts
there's the IETF there's also the IRT F
and one's more academic cut ones more in
like prep protocols and standards that
are induced in production today so there
you have these also like even within the
whole overall organization there there
are different mega subgroups there and
it's also very contentious like when
jessica introduced us to kind of one of
the one of the fathers of the
organization and and he's he he had some
interesting feedback on like just how
useful it is for different things and
where where things can get stuck in ITF
well where this the current stims effort
really can really be us a you know anti
be the opposite of momentum we're
getting a bunch of different people to
try and agree on something can sometimes
be not the most effective way of driving
it forward so it's good to understand
like the relative of pros and cons are
there but like just being in this
conversation and for all of us you know
if we are joining being present watching
how it works
learning what we can it's gonna be the
priority as opposed to say any specific
any specific individual spike or goal
there I think you know be one of us
hanging out at these meetings just
learning and soaking in as much as
possible meeting a bunch of people
making connections and understanding
where we're we're you know we have we
have kind of three ways that we do
things right one is when is integrating
with existing software two is ignoring
all existing software and run your own
stuff and writing around it and then
third is these kind of like
participation these long-running broader
discussions around the art of how
software changes over time and how we
think about it as a broader group of
practitioners so understanding where
places like the ITU have in certain
groups or people there can help us with
making those decision
peanut do it again now I'm looking at it
it's one of the three but this it's not
a magic bullet gods problems some
baggage
yeah sounds good I yeah having a that
clear under clear understanding of like
what we're going there for why we're it
something to do there and like are the
things that we should prep or prep the
community or make loud noises before we
before we go some some noise not too
loud a nice soothing beach sounds for
sure I think it's very useful to watch
like totally slick as a homework kick
some sessions who interests and she see
how they they work like what's the
dynamic especially the one dietrich
missions for the packaging from google
it's like sort of on an extreme parts
but it gives you a good feeling of how
open and how open that discussion is and
when you like blink a proposal you need
to be either prepared or you need to be
prepared for defense or for something
like what's happened up super useful
just to prepare yourself or or don't
watch it because it might scare you off
from ever presenting delight yeah should
review goes from two-week know yeah yeah
open this up to a slide number 153 doing
to like show squeeze show yeah alright i
just wanted to do a quick review with
this group to see whether or not these
are still the these these goals make
sense there's this i know you know we've
been tracking and ladles been pushing
hard on on this as a high priority and
really affects our whole ecosystem kind
of how we ship IP fuss
the connectivity meet means we just
talked about Stardust it's fantastic
that looks like that is on tracking and
landing soon the companion refactor I'm
kind of curious about whether that's
still a goal for for this first couple
of quarters and how high priority that
is it needs to happen in q2 like we are
not able to like ship anything new with
companion we are not able to good dog
food go I like Jessica fest just a
professor CP clients not able to like
that sounds pretty high priority yeah
all right and then the pure story v2
it's not still on contact for q2 yeah so
in the pierced RV - it's where I'm
starting to creating some discussion
around it so me Jacob Indian is already
talked briefly bar it's on on the IPA
fasting week and we got some initial
ideas
basically we've started to is something
that I'd be discussing for a while on
Liberty but it was not really a priority
so far to be implemented in Ingo so the
discussion got kind of blocked a while
ago and now the plan is to revamp that
discussion in order to for us to upgrade
to peer survey - and with that get lots
of benefits for the browser namely
getting persisted peers so that when you
put your note for the second time you
can immediately try to connect to the
peers that you were connected before
instead of like also needing to rely on
bootstrap and then try to find after
that and other peers so yeah this is
definitely something that I will start
working as my main focus immediately
after start list so yeah
q2 great and then from a spec
perspective these were the four things
that you all listed as the that's the
priority spec work for q1 q2
yeah so like they or I your n basically
did not get any attention mostly due to
me focusing on subdomains and other
stuff yeah I think there's no there's no
specific use case driving that that's
just more of an a longer term
standardization art great yeah it's not
it's mostly like to formalize it so it
can be used in complex which require
like formally valid yeah and I think
supporting some of the distributed
identity work as well how about generic
PP signaling yeah so this kind of goes
in line with the like web RTC to read
signaling so there's like there's two
tracks here and we'll probably focus on
the first track which is like signaling
web RTC distributed so that we can just
have that over an intermediary node
without relying on signaling servers and
then there's like a more generic version
of it which is just like kind of
signaling for hole punching in general
because there are also like we might
want to use generic signaling over a
third party relay to do like TCP hole
punching so there's the option to
potentially do that as well but that's
like a more that will probably punt so
that we can get the web RTC think sooner
and then abstract that out onto a more
generic p2p signaling thing so that is
still targeting for 4qq
along the same lines needed for
distributed web receive will be the
direct connection upgrade so that we can
use a relay as our signaler and then
dial directly to each other over that
and then Kidal the relay connections
assuming we don't need them anymore but
we'll probably keep them for listening
and then on a completely different track
from signaling is the the pure exchange
protocol which is still we should still
do in q2 because that has
just a lot of value in general for being
able to having another method of
discovering peers when we have limited
connectivity in the browser this seems
so the nature of this work is more as
finalizing specs but not so much
implementation right so we'll have a at
least the proof of concept of that so
like that's that's the goal for q2 is to
have like D so the way that little PDB
specs work is it will be in like it's
technically it'll be in a draft state
this defect will be in a draft state and
then getting that proof concept so that
we have like an implementation of it and
then like flushing that out so that we
can move that speck potentially doing
like q3 to like recommended because then
like in q3 we have like a full-blown
working implementation okay great
you
from a milestone so specs SPECT just
talked about that there any Denny
Delta's here from from what you would
expect for Jason by PFS shipping with a
Stardust like going fast with suddenly
gateways that sounds like it's on on
track and I change there and then yeah
q2
did other things that was correct from
my perspective yeah looks pretty good
go ahead give subdomains we'll land for
in Goa q FS then companion much not sure
about Jessica's I need to like revisit
what's their real schedule but that's
blocking go up if s1 so cool
fantastic thanks y'all for taking the
time to look at this a bit with me ten
minutes well spent to make sure that or
we are on track to these things that we
identified a team because the most
important things
should we do a similar session with
metrics now oh yeah so this this one
should be fun you all might be familiar
with this sheet that I will share so I
think that the key here the next piece
that I need now that you will review
these and thought they made sense are
actually to identify that data sources
for each one of these so down here
reline well that's 21 through 30 are a
set of metrics that we've identified but
in order to be able to track those we
need to be able to actually wire up that
source of data into grata and they're
coming up with tried to make it as easy
as possible we'll do that but the first
step is to actually assign these to this
group of people here who would know
where this data is and then actually
spec out like where what would the API
calls that we need to be e what are the
points that we need to hit where's that
data collectable wish and where can we
write it to the actual and
nuts-and-bolts middle of metal
collection of this data so I think well
let's spend a couple of minutes here I
know I know Lytle you did some work on
this companion install a bit from the
badging that I saw so that seems like it
should be pretty straightforward there's
an in point that we can hit get that
right yeah both both stars exposed it
publicly on Chrome Web Store there may
be like a proprietary API but we can
always like use a guy key for our
internal dashboard all right so I can
add you to this one
how about for this w w star users is
there a way to to even know that at all
that's basically when we get the
signaling servers out of place and there
it will be easier but precise thing
together the numbers I don't think so
it's just whether those endpoints are up
and online right yeah when we take those
servers down then we'll know how many
servers are running all right so that
seems pretty straightforward
how about relay users this we kind of
commented on like we don't we don't have
any public relays at least further that
j/s uses it all so I mean like right now
this is zero and it's going to continue
to be zero for a while likely until we
do distribute it signaling because we'll
need to have of like limited relays in
place before we we measure that okay so
this metric is actually kind of like
it's too early and so yeah you know of
being potentially an end-of-year metric
so let's
all out of notes thing to review that in
q3 we can revisit and see if we're ready
to actually start tracking that or not
the four WS are users though that
something where we actually start
tracking that when
should we track that start tracking that
in q2 where's that could we have like
it's really nothing to track there it's
like the server's are on or off right
yeah I think it's when we have this with
the signaling right that's the point
when the other ways yeah I think a
better thing to track here would be like
Stardust users and WebRTC star users so
one of the things that we will be
tracking with WebRTC star is we'll have
metrics being dumped to Prometheus not
only for like the load on the server but
also like how many joins are we getting
how many join errors are we getting and
like we'll be able to see some of those
actual numbers um so we'll be able to
pull those out and dump them into the
dashboard can you update the description
of this then - because I think that
you're I think you're I'd like that is a
more meaningful signal for us nope
so yeah up take the description and then
can you write in the data source the
description of where like of that what
date is gonna be in prometheus
and it sounds like we're we're too early
are we too early for that or when will
that go live and when when will the or
there actually be that data available
yeah so I am I'm finishing up
I got blocked on some permissions but I
am finishing up the docker hub block on
there now so I'll finish up the docker
hub deploy of the container so we'll
have that thrown up with docker hub and
then I will sync up with infra and
they'll probably need like a week or two
to handle provisioning and then they'll
just pull down the e um the docker hub
image and then built the deploys from
there and then once we have that we will
be be good to start pulling that so
hopefully all in all I would say like
three to four weeks on the high okay
now we'll just need to wire that up and
but we can wiring up from prometheus to
Griffin I was already pretty much a done
done deal so that shouldn't be difficult
bootstrap no the load decrease
who we would own that and what would it
entail so that would be when we have
persisted pierced or that we would not
really need to rely that much on would
strap nodes so the metric could
eventually be the number of connections
that the bootstrap nodes needs to have
open but it's self so I'm not sure if
it's achievable because if we have more
connections also kind of a sign know
that we are having more users so I'm not
sure which will be the good metric here
yeah this is this guitar chicks I mean
you could look at like like unique peer
IDs but I don't know if like what kind
of data we can get in terms of like how
often are the same users coming in and
talking to us like looking at peer IDs
over time because ideally bootstrap
nodes should be seeing the same peers
less right like unique it's from peers
should be really low like I should join
connect to the network get peers and
then in reality they like I shouldn't
need to talk to the mixed rap nodes
again unless I run into situation where
all of the peers in that I didn't know
are like until--well now and so now I
need to go back to the peers that I know
are good which are the bootstrap peers
it sounds like I mean unique IP is just
might be a hand wavy way of doing that
right potentially but I mean if we're in
like Jas if we have all of that like our
notes kind of changing ip's all the time
all the time yeah so I think like it's
unique yeah I don't know like if we
could tract unique hits per unique peer
ID like that might give us symmetric
that we could look at in terms of like
how often our peers coming back to talk
to you about
this seems to be the way that you
initially wear this though was about
load decrease but it sounds like more
users might load increase which is also
fine yeah we've made this thing better
now more people are talking to the
bootstrap Maps right yeah it's more
about like decreasing the amount of
recurring IDs like recurring PID usage
over time but it's like it requires
basically as to like store every PID and
like calculates the average number of
times you see the same period over some
type like window of time but I mean
there there could also be an interesting
correlation here in terms of like
looking at the WebRTC star and start a
statistics in conjunction with load on
the bootstrap servers because if we if
those are high and like our peer store
storage is working well then like in
theory we should have like a lower that
should correlate to some lower hit rate
to some degree but then yeah like
popularity it will eventually cause
problems with that number so I think in
the interim it could be a very
interesting number but long term it's
probably not an interesting number in
terms of like looking at peer store
make sense it sounds like either either
we track likes track like we store peer
IDs over time and he got out the way of
coming up with a number based on his
story like the historically seen Pierre
IDs over time or this one he like needs
to be like it needs to be refreshed
anyway but the question is easy if we do
that would that be even a meaningful
metric should we like collapse it with
the websocket star one like well like
web RTC and start this one's because
that one it sounds like a normal school
yeah it's it sounds like like that would
tell the same story right like without
us having a disambiguate increased I
professing usage on the bootstrap nodes
from recidivist ik usage yeah I feel
like I feel the bootstrap node load it
all it does may not belong I'm not sure
like it sounds more like something
contents routing group may be interested
because that's not like specific to a
browser transports it's a general health
of the networks although yeah the basic
electronic unique period is over time
that feels like high-level health
analysis of the entire DHT or Olek
network yeah yeah I would
question mark if we come up with an a
meaningful way of phrasing it without
like gathering all PIDs that we okay can
one of you write a summary in the data
source of why why this would be
meaningful and why it's hard you know
then we win Li's have these notes
captured around we're not implementing
yet spec blockers this is this is an
interesting one how would we measure
that
and why is it meaningful
what is this this is how long our specs
take this could just be like time our
spec PRS it open if that's what we're
trying to measure it sounds like that's
what we're trying to measure you all
decided this as a meaningful thing I'm
sure it meant something to us when we
wrote it should should this be removed
or is there like a meaningful thing that
we want to track here I mean it could be
that like specs finalized might be a
better like a better thing to actually
measure like the things that we were
able to actually complete yeah it
probably may be just like for companion
and firefox installs we probably would
track like installs are not as useful
are like weekly or monthly users I feel
it was just like us writing the stuff
fast maybe it's more about like spec
changes which or as a group yeah I
mean like thing yeah I agree should feel
like we should blast this until we have
yeah yeah idea for we actually want to
track yeah delete
I started again I'm not sure that this
is a metric we'd want to chase numbers
with something like this but uh III like
it as a as a reflection of how well
we're able to scale our ideas out to the
community I think that's something good
yeah I think this is a thing of like
what is it's like the interesting match
was like how many dev grants are we
creating not that high or low art is
good but like how many are recreating of
those how many have gotten picked up
like how quickly have they gotten picked
about and then how many are getting
completed because just in terms of like
are we producing dev grants that people
care about and that people are getting
work done how long are the dev grants
open cuz like we talked about like I
talked a little bit with Lytle earlier
like making sure that we're giving
enough support to people doing dev
grants so they don't end up staying open
for super long because if people are
completing dev grants and they're doing
the work but we don't have the time to
like validate those make sure it's good
to like reward to the dev grant at the
end then like people are just going to
stop doing yeah yeah I so I have these
kind of marked these kind of like top
level grants stuff at the top here and
to be done by the grants program and I'd
rather not have like I'd rather not you
as the browsers connectivity team have
to focus on running your own kind of
metrics around dev grants so I think
well well well delegate it the gala gave
that responsibility off to the to the
grants program and and you know the
people are running a program then can be
like hey hey browser team your your
grants are getting picked up but you're
not answering them or people aren't
filing any or things like that right
so I think those like everything you
listed definitely are things we want to
track but the whole grant program level
would probably not at the browser's I'd
rather you all focus on on the browser
specific bits you know I think I think
I'm you're gonna delete this one as well
for now and and just have it be a
Trinity - ideally is something that
we're practicing as a as a team as a way
to scale which we already are and Lydell
spending a bunch of time on gun grids
really and stuff already
the this it has to question yes it does
and this is like more like a vanity in
Madrid III wonder if there's something
to be said like around user agents or
something like that like I don't know
how we're tracking implementations or
where maybe traffic's coming from or
like there's probably we could probably
tease this out and take it apart and
think about where increased usage from
native implementations and browsers
would actually be reflected from a
traffic standpoint not not all browsers
are equals to so I agree this is a nice
vanity metric it doesn't doesn't tell us
anything that we already didn't know and
we don't know for falling off the wagon
unless we're actually tracking traffic
itself musi going down yeah it's like a
it's a vanity one unless we like frame
it assuming the native protocol handler
for browser extension lands that metric
would reflect how many browser vendors
adopted those patches that were
deliverables from that grant yeah but
it's like it's still it's a vanity
metric that requires additional
description to make it more meaningful
which I don't really feel good yeah I
agree with you and I feel like we're not
we're not quite like from a metric
standpoint this isn't gonna help Weaver
leave our visibility if our level of
success for well if or be a warning sign
if something's wrong
how about this final one here I feel
it's the same as the one mark TBD
effectively we sort of like hinted that
to make the twenty-sixth one to make
that work we need to reframe it to
something like the last one so those are
probably the same so we can remove the
last one here a movie
removing entirely yes it's basically a
duplicate of yeah if we if we keep 26
then we will effectively the track
unique beers one way or another all
right so this one is also TBD
so really are this one is vanity that's
the progress there it's gonna be slow
the tracking over the years well still
it will probably always be under five
for at least a couple of years but we
have to have something to keep the fire
so it sounds like these are the WebRTC
star will be a metric for q2 for sure
that's great companion install is
definitely something something we want
to track I feel like we need we can do
these these couple of metrics first but
I would like to be able to over time get
a more a more sophisticated
understanding of kind of what progress
actually means and maybe this means
digging into type like connectivity
types maybe this means adding more
telemetry in different places maybe this
means about providing more opt-in
options for things like JSF PFS self
reporting aggregate tracking of network
health things like that especially as we
start like if we're crawling the DHT
we're able to get out of the browser
nodes counting what that actually means
and exploring more creative ways of
understanding that I guess the ease of
use there there's probably something
else there here we could add around
tracking GSI TFS Caesars on NPM and
github
and and that that if we can identify
where they're part of web projects
versus node projects or vice versa or
both the you know the there's there's
probably something to see there around
how well it's working in a web context
but that's from more like a developer
usage an ergonomics standpoint also like
JSC the ends like just deliver yeah yeah
those who give a solid number that you
know those are chase active s or Jessica
facility client clients right at it yeah
it's good idea
that's gonna be that's gonna be a
clearer signal than a then github or NPM
stuff for sure all right great thanks
y'all appreciate the time digging into
these useful now we have a smaller but
more meaningful signal about whether
what we're doing is twinning is working
or not yeah I I would love to have that
metric like have that the data they test
way of like historical
a corpus of PR IDs just to see what is
the network dynamic but it's probably
not something for this working group to
do I mean it seems like a lot of people
a lot of our projects would benefit from
having that visibility right yeah maybe
this is like file an issue in infraorder
I get my are more ideas people's
thoughts of whether that would be a
valuable thing yeah I feel like if we we
start gathering those peer IDs over time
like right now we've got a rough idea of
unit DHD site but if we start gathering
pure ids and making multi others as well
that way we could
see the proliferation of different
transports over time like for local
networks local multi others ipv6
adoption going up
[Music]
native subdomain gateways Ingo ipfs
there's a PR ready for review and I will
just mention it because it's not merged
yet the P R is in Goa PFS we go
and it's gateways subdomains and also
HTTP proxy modes I mentioned it before
so I'll just skip to the the relevant
parts if you go to the linked PR there's
a link to relevant dogs and those dogs
basically describe how this feature
would be set up we go back FS
configuration so by default everything
would work the same with a small
difference that local host host name now
would be a subdomain gateway by default
you can disable what that behavior with
one-liner basically like removing
localhost or setting your subdomains to
false for local host hostname apart from
that there is a new configuration object
called public gateways which enable
people to when this PR is merged it will
enable people to define custom behavior
for a specific host name so for example
it's possible to expose only specific
paths on a specific host name if your
only ones ipfs but
on APNs or vice versa you are able to do
that with this notation you are now able
to enable subdomain gateway on any
hostname here we use our subdomain
gateway as an example the web link is a
subdomain gateway we have shared this in
in subdomain for a TFS and a penis this
is how you would create your own and
still you may want to run the old-school
path gateway it's just a matter of
setting q sub domains to false
humanik my expose api on that if you
expose api on sub domain it will get a
URL on api sub domain but the api path
will be the same and you can control if
dns link will be resolved for the
hostname so you may use DNS link as a
landing page for your subdomain gateway
when someone opens the domain without
any salt like cid in subdomain or you
may decide that you don't want to run
any public gateway and you just want
your own website and you want to just to
just go out your fast for publishing so
I've added some Gateway recipe receipts
at the end for those most common cases
so subdomain gateway one-line to set it
up pop gateway similarly enabling
wild-card gateway for DNS link where you
can point your domain name let's go ipfs
without any nginx in front of it and it
will just it will detect hostname in the
host header sent by your web browser and
will resolve the NS link from dns txt
record and we'll know the proper content
and return it to your HTTP client and
finally there's a way of
disabling public gateway mode ensuring
no one can force your note to fetch
someone else's content so there's a no
fetch option here we disable the NS link
resolve so no one can point their
hostname at your IP at your server to
abuse your bandwidth but say we use you
want to host a specific website let's
say you have a bandwidth but you want to
contribute that bandwidth only to
Wikipedia mirror so what you do you
would like set up your DNS link pointing
at your server you would reload data to
your server so the data is not fetched
but it's already there for this specific
DNS link and then you ensure DNS link is
resolved so we got a double negative
here no paths so there's no public
gateway and only this website would load
those are that the key use cases I I've
seen if you see something that's not on
this list please comment on on the on
that issue on that PR it will be super
useful to add it to a list of examples
in that forum that's easy to like run as
a one-liner I believe this pier will
land and will ship in go ipfs 0.5 so it
would be super useful to get feedback
sooner than later
I love the recipes section that's cool
yeah I went over like some examples and
just made sure it you can just copy that
in the console and it just works it's
much more useful than just like JSON
which when you paste it on console you
need to look at the path long story
short we want to make this like
transition we want to make it easier for
people to render on sub
maybe just like just as a quick reminder
we got this public gateway checker and
you can see like community contributed
gateways and there is an origin test
here so right now we got a web link
CloudFlare and some third party one
providing the subdomain gateway feature
which provides origin isolation we want
people from this list and in general to
be able to let provide this feature
without any additional package on the
and your next site wait why why we're
our gateways red eye closed one second
you mean IP FSA oh yeah oh it was red
because it does not provide origin
isolation it's a path based gateway I
thought we I thought we had we got do a
link for that it's a separate origin
yeah we keep yeah so that's the question
I thought we I thought we had the nginx
redirects happening on the main gateway
as well no that's that's more sort of
like an open question we discuss it and
the decision at the time was to don't
change the behavior on ipfs IO because a
lot of people use ipfs IO for scripting
using Karl W get and if we return the
redirect a lot of tools do not expect
redirect on the web browser we'll just
follow the redirect return the final
payload however if you run Karl without
- L parameter it will just return
redirect without following it and it
will like break a lot of workflows it's
an open question
we can always flip the switch on the IPF
sio and start redirecting it to give a
blink if we like add additional tests if
we check user agent or if we there's not
always right I don't want to spoil it
I got an idea how to do that but it's
yeah I just I guess I didn't realize
that we hadn't already flipped that yeah
I believe like if we ask ollie
he may be a better person to answer what
only is he was working on the web link
and the decision to not touch like if I
say oh I was made around the time yeah
should we talk about test ground browser
and note integration hey hello so I
already talked a little bit about this
with a Moscow just to money I want to
get some ideas from you guys to start
like designing test plans or type of
testing you and I run how will the set
up to look like and stuff like that I'm
starting to have conversations with rule
and all the test run guys and probably
Friday Monday around around that I'm
gonna at like this designing well the
test plan would look like I wanna I
wanna I wanted to get like some basic
test plan then some ideas for further
steps so if you guys want to give me
some ideas I'm open to it I would love
to hear from you you to better design
those tests so yeah try any ideas please
send those to me or if you want to have
a call and discuss it a lot of weight
it's fine too
we are short on time so I say we send
those scenario testing scenarios to you
for sure we want to be a part of that
test ground endeavor and the browser
stuff
going forward when we got things like
disability or even like upgrading to
WebRTC from other more centralized
things that would be super useful to get
and inside to test ground what's
happening it's awesome kiddo thank you
so much for pushing this alright folks
I will be strict with time I will just
say hi and you and I will also say bye
Andrew because we are we are ending this
call unless you've got a very super
exciting news for us
I'm the entire thing
[Laughter]